Added Issue reporting and triage process document (#14223)
mistercrunch/Airflow: docs/apache-airflow/issue-triage-process.rst

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

Issue reporting and resolution process
======================================

This document explains the issue tracking and triage process within Apache
Airflow including labels, milestones, and priorities as well as the process

> of resolving issues.

Reviewer: Should we mention here that there is no need to open an issue prior to opening a PR?

Reviewer 2: Agree. Good point. People do not realise that -it's a rare thing not having to open issue. I think we are pioneers with that. i actually find it pretty cool that we base all that we do on PR numbers rather than issue numbers. This is sooo much less overhead, but people do not realise that this is the case.

Actually we could even modify our template for new issues to include that information alongside "Please save some trees and do not create issue if you can just open PR fixing the problem" ;).

Author: Good point, done.

> of resolution of issues.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
of resolving issues.
```

Author: done

Labels
''''''

Since Apache Airflow uses Github Issues as the issue tracking system, the
use of labels is extensive. Though issue labels tend to change over time
based on components within the project, the majority of the ones listed
below should stand the test of time.

The intention with the use of labels with the Apache Airflow project is
that they should ideally be non-temporal in nature and primarily used
to indicate the following elements:

**Kind**

> The “kind” of labels indicate “what kind of issue it is”. The most

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The “kind” labels indicate “what kind of issue it is”. The most
```

Author: done

commonly used “kind” labels are: bug, feature, documentation, or task.

Therefore, when reporting an issue, the label of ``kind:bug`` is to
indicate a problem with the functionality, whereas the label of
``kind:feature`` is a desire to extend the functionality.

There has been discussion within the project about whether to separate
the desire for “new features” from “enhancements to existing features”,
but in practice most “feature requests” are actually enhancement requests,
so we decided to combine them both into ``kind:feature``.

> We recently introduced ``kind:task`` to categorize issues which are

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``kind:task`` is used to categorize issues which are
```
i'm not sure if it matters that this was recently added? Also, saves the future issue of fixing the sentence when "recently" is not true any longer.

Author: Done.

identified elements of work to be done, primarily as part of a larger
change to be done as part of an AIP or something which needs to be cleaned
up in the project.

> Issues of ``kind:documentation`` are exactly that, changes which need to be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Issues of ``kind:documentation`` are for changes which need to be
```

Author: done

made to the documentation within the project.

**Area**

The “area” set of labels should indicate the component of the code
referenced by the issue. At a high level, the biggest areas of the project
are: Airflow Core and Airflow Providers, which are referenced by ``area:core``
and ``area:providers``. This is especially important since these are now
being released and versioned independently.

There are more detailed areas of the project such as Scheduler, Webserver,

> API, UI, Logging, and Kubernetes which are all conceptually under the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
API, UI, Logging, and Kubernetes, which are all conceptually under the
```

“Airflow Core” area of the project.

> Similarly, some providers are broken out such as Apache (``provider/Apache``),

Reviewer: Is broken out the proper way to describe it? I'm not native English speaker but this sounds a bit odd to me. Maybe split / divide are more suitable?

Author: tried again, please let me know if this is better.

AWS (``provider/AWS``), Azure (``provider/Azure``), and Google (``provider/Google``).
These make it easier for developers working on a single provider to

> track issues for that provider.

Reviewer: Should we mention the motivation why some providers have dedicated labels while other don't?

Author: done

Most issues need a combination of "kind" and "area" labels to be actionable.
For example:

* Feature request for an additional API would have ``kind:feature`` and ``area:API``
* Bug report on the User Interface would have ``kind:bug`` and ``area:UI``
* Documentation request on the Kubernetes Executor, would have ``kind:documentation`` and ``area:kubernetes``

Response to issues
''''''''''''''''''

Once an issue has been created on the Airflow project, someone from the
Airflow team or the Airflow community typically responds to this issue.
This response can have multiple elements.

**Priority**

After significant discussion about the different priority schemes currently
being used across various projects, we decided to use a priority scheme based
on the Kubernetes project, since the team felt it was easier for people to
understand.

Therefore, the priority labels used are:

> * ``Priority:critical``: Showstopper bug that should be resolved immediately and a patch issued as soon as possible. Typically, this is because it affects most users and would take down production systems.

Reviewer 3: Does it make sense to capitalize the `Priority` prefix if we don't capitalize `area`?

Author: You are right, it should have been lower case. Fixed it.

* ``priority:high``: A high priority bug that affects many users and should be resolved quickly, but can wait for the next scheduled patch release.
* ``priority:medium``: A bug that should be fixed before the next release, but would not block a release if found during the release process.
* ``priority:low``: A bug with a simple workaround or a nuisance that does not stop mainstream functionality.

It's important to use priority labels effectively so we can triage incoming issues
appropriately and make sure that when we release a new version of Airflow,

> we can ship a release confident that there are no “production blocker” issues in it.

Reviewer: We need to clarify if the intention to use priority labels only on Airflow core or also on providers.
in general issue can be critical in a specific provider (broken provider, broken specific package in provider etc..)
If we set `priority:critical` on Google provider. Does this means we expect/suggest/consider a patch release for this provider?

Reviewer 2: I believe yeah, this might trigger us to have an out-of-band release in case we find a critical issue - especially that we can do it easily now and nothing stops us except the efficiency/batching of voting process.

Author: Thank you, great point. done.

> we can ship a release confident that there are no “production blocker” issues in it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It's important to use priority labels effectively so we can triage incoming issues
appropriately and make sure that when we release a new version of Airflow,
we can ship a release confident that there are no “production blocker” issues in it.
```

**Milestones**

The key temporal element in the issue triage process is the concept of milestones.
This is critical for release management purposes and will be used represent upcoming
release targets.

Issues currently being resolved will get assigned to one of the upcoming releases.
For example a feature request may be targeted for the next feature release milestone
such as ``2.x``, where a bug may be targeted for the next patch release milestone
such as ``2.x.y``.

In the interest of being precise, when an issue is tagged with a milestone, it
represents that it will be considered for that release, not that it is committed to
a release. Once a PR is created to fix that issue and when that PR is tagged with a
milestone, it implies that the PR is intended to released in that milestone.

> It is worth noting that Airflow Core and Airflow Providers are now released and

Reviewer 2: I am not sure if we want to actually have milestones for Providers. We could have a separate milestone for every batch of providers for sure, but I think this is not necessary, as we will always release whatever we have in master as the next wave of providers. What is more important is a list of upcoming changes in providers - so an automated way to show what will be included in the next wave of providers (so everything that is merged already) - and we will have a separate issue which will get updated automatically with:

* list of providers that we will release (i.e. all providers that have some changes)
* for each provider, detailed list of changes that we will release

This list will be automatically updated and once we release a next wave of providers, it will clean-up automatically.

I believe this is a bit different than core Airflow. For Airflow we deliberately choose what we are going to release by cherry-picking (at least for patchlevels), where for Providers we always release everything we have in master.

Author: Hmm, that's a good point. 
I was basing this on the behavior to date including the milestone "apache-airflow-providers-google v2" which is currently there in github issues. 
I think you are making the point, that going forward this should be an exception rather than the rule. 
Did I understand you correctly?

Reviewer 2: Correct. I am planning to propose how formally our provider release process will look like (basically release all provider that changed from master every 3 weeks in regular intervals (RC - 1 week vote  - Release - 2 weeks break) - i wanted to discuss it at the dev call today. and in this case we can set a release schedule in calendar rather than a milestone.

Author: Done. I explicitly made the milestone reference only towards Airflow Core releases now. Can update this later once the Provider release proposal is locked down.

Ideally, these issues only require one or two files to be changed. The intention
here is that incremental changes to existing files are a lot easier for a new
contributor as compared to adding something completely new.

Another possibility here is to add “how to fix” in the comments of such issues, so
that new contributors have a running start when then pick up these issues.

**Timeliness**

For the sake of quick responses, the general “soft" rule within the Airflow project
is that if there is no assignee, anyone can take an issue to solve.

However, this depends on timely resolution of the issue by the assignee. The
expectation is as follows:

* If there is no activity on the issue for 2 weeks, the assignee will be reminded about the issue and asked if they are still working on it.
* If there is no activity even after 1 more week, the issue will be unassigned, so that someone else can pick it up and work on it.

There is a similar process when additional information is requested from the
issue creator. After the pending-response label has been assigned, if there is no
further information for a period of 1 month, the issue will be automatically closed.

> **Invalidity**

Reviewer: we should also add note about `won't fix`

Author: done
